Classes: C# (#2955)
Codecademy/docs: content/c-sharp/concepts/classes/classes.md

## Syntax

```pseudo
// Declaring the class:
public class ClassName
{
  // Example Instance Variables
  String subName;
  int exampleInt;

  // Constructor for ClassName class
  public ClassName(String subName, int exampleInt)
  {
    this.subName = subName;
    this.exampleInt = exampleInt;
  }

  // Property 1
  public String GetClassSubName()
  {
    return subName;
  }

  // Property 2
  public int GetClassExampleInt()
  {
    return exampleInt;
  }
}

// Calling the class from the main method
public static void Main(String[] args)
{
  // Creating object with Class
  ClassName Codecademy = new ClassName("LearnCSharp", 2023)
}
```

## Codebyte Example

In the example below, a public class is declared as 'Book'. The class and its attributes are first declared. Within the class, it contains a book's name, author, and release date. Within `Main()`, two Book objects are declared: GreatGatsby and HungerGames. Each object then has it's appropriate detail declared within the parameters.

> ```codebyte/csharp

Reviewer: These classes should have methods that produce some sort of output that is used after they are called, so that the user sees something happen when they run the codebyte.

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Code Foundations'
Tags:
  - 'Classes' 
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-sharp'
  - 'learn-c-sharp-introduction'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
  - 'learn-asp-net'
---

A **class** represents a custom data type. In C#, the class defines the kinds of information and methods included in a custom type. Generally, a class deeclaration contains the keyword of the class. It is then followed by an identifier(name) of the class. 

## Syntax

```pseudo
// Declaring the class:
public class ClassName
{
     // Example Instance Variables
     String subName;
     int exampleInt;

     // Constructor for ClassName class
     public ClassName(String subName, int exampleInt)
     {
          this.subName = subName;
          this.exampleInt = exampleInt;
     }

     // property 1
     public String GetClassSubName()
     {
          return subName;
     }

     // property 2
     public int GetClassExampleInt()
     {
          return exampleInt;
     }
}

// Calling the class from the main method
public static void Main(String[] args)
{

     // Creating object with Class
     ClassName Codecademy = new ClassName("LearnCSharp", 2023)

}
```

## Codebyte Example

> In the following, a public class is declared as 'Book'. The class and its attributes are first declared. Within the class, it contains a book's name, author, and release date. Within `Main()`, two Book objects are declared: GreatGatsby and HungerGames. Each object then has it's appropriate detail declared within the parameters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following, a public class is declared as 'Book'. The class and its attributes are first declared. Within the class, it contains a book's name, author, and release date. Within `Main()`, two Book objects are declared: GreatGatsby and HungerGames. Each object then has its appropriate detail declared within the parameters. 
```

> In the following, a public class is declared as 'Book'. The class and its attributes are first declared. Within the class, it contains a book's name, author, and release date. Within `Main()`, two Book objects are declared: GreatGatsby and HungerGames. Each object then has it's appropriate detail declared within the parameters. 

Reviewer 2: [proofreading] Consider mentioning where the class is performing its function. It'll help readers gain a better understanding of this description. 
```suggestion
In the above example, a public class is declared as 'Book'. The class and its attributes are first declared. Within the class, it contains a book's name, author, and release date. Within `Main()`, two Book objects are declared: GreatGatsby and HungerGames. Each object then has it's appropriate detail declared within the parameters. 
```

> ```codebyte/csharp

Reviewer: These classes should have methods that produce some sort of output that is used after they are called, so that the user sees something happen when they run the codebyte.
